# DPNet

Welcome to The Decentralized Privacy Network (DPNet).

The Decentralized Privacy Network is a Tor-like decentralized network aiming to be used as a VPN or proxy to browse the web privately while letting users select between fast performance and strong anonymity. To do so, the network will be peer-to-peer, where each node can be a client, a server and a relay. The network allows user to choose between 1 to 4 hops, where 1 hop behaving like a VPN, with high bandwidth and low latency, and 2,3,4 hops adding anonymity to the connection like Tor, but with lower bandwidth and higher latency. The goal is to use DPNet instead of a VPN for browsing the web and Tor to be anonymous and accessing tor hidden service. Having to pay for privacy with good performance or to have free privacy but bad performance is not what we believe as a good solution. People need privacy, and we are giving it to them for free, while letting them have a usable internet speed for any online activities.

The project is FOSS under GPLv3 licence, meaning it will stay FOSS forever. It is decentralized and peer-to-peer, and the goal is to give anyone online privacy. We do not do it as a competitor to VPN providers or Tor, but as a need for online privacy. As said by Eric Hughes in 'A Cypherpunk Manifesto', 1993 : "Privacy is necessary for an open society in the electronic age". In the same text, Hughes highlight the need for privacy as the choice to reveal information. We think that it is exactly what we are bringing to the world : the choice of how much information you want to give while accessing the Internet. We do not believe that corporations can give people privacy, even if they have an economic incentive to do so. Legal entities are an easy target for government intelligence agencies, hackers and other bad actors. Only a FOSS P2P decentralized network can mitigate the risks involved. However, as Hughes said, we do not believe that privacy equals anonymity. While the Tor project being a good project, it is too niche and do not have the impact we want for a worldwide privacy network. Why giving anonymity to a small group of people and let the others being spied on or having to trust corporations ? The exclusion of a lot of people by the Tor network is something we find weird. Tor does not suit today's digital life, where high bandwidth and low latency are more and more needed.

We want to give people online privacy without the restricted bandwidth of Tor, so they can watch video streaming in 4K or scroll on social media. We want to give them a good latency, so they can play video games or video call their friends.

However, for people needed strong anonymity, like people in authoritarian countries, journalists, whistleblowers... We give them the possibility to have 4 hops across the world, so no one will be able to find their location.

We are planning to create websites only accessible inside the network like Tor hidden service or eep sites, bypassing the need of renting domain name to ICANN and using DNS and CDN like Cloudflare.
